# What is your issue of interest (provide sufficient background information)?
The stock market is a major topic in modern life. Investors can easily purchase new stocks and gain significant profits from dividends provided in the company’s bonus program for shareholders. Investors can also trade their own stocks with the other traders in the stock market via stock brokerages and electronic trading platforms. The stock exchange reflects market capitalism, and millions of stocks are traded every day. Stock movement prediction has attracted many researchers in multiple disciplines, including computer science, statistics, economics, finance, and operations research. These are based on long-term and short-term market trading activities that reflect different trading patterns. Our aim is to analyze one of those trading patterns called intraday trading. Intraday trading is highly dependent on the news about a specific stock on a given day. Our prime goal is to look at how sentiment analysis on stock news affects stock movement. With significant breakthroughs in data science and machine learning, today, we have different techniques to analyze almost all forms of data available.
# Why is this issue important to you and/or to others?
I made an investment in stocks a couple of years ago and have incurred loss. That's when I understood that knowing how to anticipate the future economy, even if one don't trade stocks for a living or have any financial background, may be extremely beneficial to ones financial status. It's critical to recognize that in the financial markets, there are two types of herds: dumb money and smart money. Nonprofessional investors are referred to as "dumb money," whereas institutional investors who work at investment banks and hedge funds are referred to as "smart money." The same methods are used by these professionals to develop trade ideas and opinions on currencies, commodities, stocks, and bonds. Their strategies only differ from each other in terms of the assets they decide to trade.
Since the smart money are analyzing the same data and following the same indicators, a smart money herd mentality is created. The internet allows outsiders to get a glimpse of that mentality—to predict what the smart money are doing and what position they may take on a certain asset.
# What questions do you have in mind and would like to answer?
Why is stock market prediction Important?
How does sentiment analysis help in predicting the trends in stock market?
Stock market prediction aims to determine the future movement of the stock value of a financial exchange. The accurate prediction of share price movement will lead to more profit investors can make. If the news sentiment is favorable, the stock price is more likely to rise; if the news sentiment is negative, the stock price is more likely to fall. Sentiment Analysis can forecast news polarity, which can influence stock market patterns.
